Hello.
Welcome back to your favorite course on tableau.
And today we're finally creating our very first dashboard.
Hurray.
Congrats on getting this far is going to be super super fun and you will see exactly how to create your
first dashboard.
It's going to be epic.
So let's get straight to it.
Here we've got two tabs we've got two worksheets that we re created.
We've got the customers scatter plot and we've got the map of Europe.
So now how do we put them both together onto one dashboard that when somebody is analyzing he can see
them together.
So to create a dashboard you need to click the second button over here which says new dashboard.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And right away we've got a dashboard one created.
And as you can see it looks a bit different to a worksheet.
It doesn't have dimensions and measures it's rather got the different worksheets that we have in our
tableau workbook and he's got some layout specifications that you can choose like you can add images
you can add web pages text different horizontal vertical layouts.
It's got you can make objects flooring or tiled and got some other width and height parameters so it's
more of a visual kind of representation.
We're no longer doing data mining or DA investigation and analysis we are creating a very pretty and
powerful tool for somebody to do da investigation using the dashboards that or the worksheets that we've
created.
So let's go ahead and do that now.
The first thing that we are going to do is we're going to drag our worksheets onto the dashboard.
So let's take the map of Europe and all you do is just just drag it on here.
And right away you can see it's filling up most of the space.
And basically this dashboard is pretty much identical to our map of Europe.
We can roll scroll over different states and we'll show us different information.
Now what we're going to do is we're going to add this caterpillar to this dashboard as well and we're
going to drag it.
And as you can see Tableau is giving you some suggestions of where you want to put it.
So what we're going to do is we're going to put it here underneath our map and there we go.
So tableau has put this dashboard under our map.
Now we obviously don't like these scroll around buttons here because it shouldn't be there.
So what we're going to do is we're going to go to the map and we'll make it a little bit smaller so
if you make a map just a bit smaller and you go back to your dashboard you will see that slowly you're
kind of getting rid of those things.
So we've still got this vertical one so let's make this smaller and maybe this a bit wider
and maybe one more time.
So we've still got both that unlike that then you can just drag it in the dashboard to fix it up to
finally and there we go.
So we've got the map of Europe and the customers can apply both in this dashboard.
So obviously this now we've got to decide on what we want to leave.
What we don't want to do the sales kind of size of the bubble.
It doesn't really help us because visually it's very hard to compare this legend to what we actually
see so let's get rid of it.
It's no point in having it.
The profit margin.
Well kind of it's more the red and blue is more to show us kind of positive and negatives we don't really
care about how the different like how they compare that.
This blue is exactly a zero point one nine and this blue is zero point zero nine five.
We won't be able to see that with our eye and same thing here.
It's more of an hysterical thing in this case because we already know that anything below the horizontal
line is actually bad.
So in this case the hysterical thing in this case is just so that our eyes are our attention is drawn
towards the red or the blue so we can quickly separate the good versus the bad and versus like the neutral
which are these gray ones.
So in reality we don't really need this color legend so let's get rid of it too.
Of course we do need a year of ordered date and now what I wanted to show you is how to add this filter
in case it's not there.
So let's let's assume that the filter wasn't there originally.
So yeah.
That's okay.
What happened there was I removed a I removed one of these containers so I'll just put it back.
So yeah that's that's proved another thing that's good too.
Good to know you can add these containers so horizontal or vertical and that will help you split up
your dashboard into segments.
So in this case I added a vertical container so that now I can put things into the container.
So here we've got two dashboards but we don't have that filter.
How do we add that filtering.
Well what we can do is we look at this dropdown for this for the map and here it says quick filters
and you can add the filter we had on year of ordered date and same thing.
You could have done it through this way you can go here.
Quick filters and you can just choose a quick filter if you want to add.
So we're just gonna actually close this because it's already created a container for me.
And with this quick filter once again you need to format it.
So just go.
What did we have single value slider.
And obviously we don't need all so customize show all value take it off.
And then you go so that you have your quick filter and as you can see as as you remember because we
said for this filter to be applied to all worksheets.
So here you go apply two worksheets all using this data source so it's basically the same as what we
said on the map of Europe.
And it's applying it to all the work she's using this data source.
So now when you click around you will see that both of these charts or both of these worksheets are
being affected by the filter which is good which is consistent which means that we know that in both
cases we're looking at the same year rather than not knowing what year we're looking at in which of
these two worksheets.
So that's how you create your first dashboard.
That's the concept behind it.
So drag and drop kind of style of operating in the next tutorial we will learn how to redo some really
cool stuff.
We will start doing looking at action filters so how to make each of these dashboards clickable so that
they interact with each other some making a dashboard interactive and we'll look at some other cool
stuff as well in the section of the course.
I'll look forward to seeing you next time.
And until then happy analyzing.